Nand2Tetris is the best course I've taken on Coursera after UPenn's Single Variable Calculus course. I had seen the [TED talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iE7YRHxwoDs) that promoted the course, so expectations were high to began with. A lot of the other courses I've taken, especially the MIT ones, sure I got a lot out of them, but they were hard courses to begin with so I also had to put a lot of myself into them. Nand2Tetris is one of those courses that is so well designed that even though the course isn't too difficult, you stand to learn a lot from it.

The premise of the course is that by the end of it, you would have built a working computer from just logic gates. If that sounds like a monumentus undertaking, that because it is. But professor Nisan and professor Schocken have taken the pains to create a software suite that takes care of the tedious bits that come with building a computer from scratch. When I builing my XOR and Multiplier gates, I wasn't working with actual transistors, but rather writing the blueprints for the circuits in a language created specifically for the course, and then evaluating my design in another app created for the course. These tools allow the student to focus their attention to the essential bits(no pun intended) of what makes up a computer, and is the reason why its possible to 'build' a working computer from NAND gates in such a short time. 

MOOC are often seen as a inferior subsitute to in-the-flesh courses. However Nand2Tetris is an example of what the economies of scale allow MOOC to achieve. It exploits the interactivity that such courses could offer in a meaningful way. It would take a particularly dedicated professor to have built the software suite in Nand2Tetris just for the learning pleasure of a small cohert of student every year. Yet with Nand2Tetris, literally thousands of students were reached within the first offering. It would take the Hebrew University of Jerusulem decades to reach the same amount of students within its own institution.
