---
layout: post-learning
title: Linear Algebra
---

**TL;DR** MIT provides a good non-theoretical take on linear algebra.

# What is this?
A first year course in linear algebra from MIT. It "covers matrix theory and
linear algebra, emphasizing topics useful in other disciplines such as physics,
economics and social sciences, natural sciences, and engineering."

# Should I take it?
Well I've also audited, Brown's Coding the Matrix-which covers the same
material from a computer scientists perspective-but preferred MIT's offering.
Note though I initially took Brown's course 3 years ago, the course was just
getting started and there were kinks in the system. Because linear algebra can
be numerically intensive, teaching it in the context of programming seems like
a good idea theoretically. In practice though, especially for those new to
programming, chasing after bugs can get in the way of conceptual understanding
of the material. If you are good at programming, check it out, they've probably
incorporated a lot of the feedback they were getting in the initial roll out of
the course. 

But enough about Brown, MIT's offering follows the conventional method of
teaching linear algebra, but the course is elevated to excellence mainly
because of Professor Strang's enthusiasm for the subject . Sometimes though he
don't cover the more difficult portions of linear algebra you might be
interested in like the Fast Fourier transform. The material isn't theory
centric. Fun fact: a lot of numpy's (a numerical package for the programming
language python) algorithm implementation reference Strang's excellent
[textbook](https://www.amazon.com/Linear-Algebra-Its-Applications-4th/dp/0030105676)
on linear algebra.</p>

# Additional Resources/Tips

<strong>Important</strong> Don't do what I did and try finishing the problems
in the textbook. They are so many of them and a lot of them are more
computationally intensive than actually conceptually challenging. As such I
recommend just following the OCW Scholar course, and doing their problem sets.
Check out the other courses for extra exams or assignments. While I used the
textbook, its because I didn't realize lecture notes were available on the
Scholar version of the course. The textbook is good, but the lecture notes more
concise. Rule of thumb, when possible just follow OCW scholar courses. Some of
the content of this course is replicated in the first portion of MIT's
multivariable course. I recommend studying this course first, at least partway,
so you an skip the first unit in the multivariable calculus course. Most people
do study both courses at the same time or do multivariable calculus first,
because its a prerequisite for so many science/engineering courses, but
conceptually linear algebra comes first.

<br>

Here's the [course](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-06sc-linear-algebra-fall-2011/index.htm) page, with extra material [here](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-06-linear-algebra-spring-2010/).
