---
layout: post-learning
title: Real Analysis, Convexity and Optimization
---

**TL;DR** You have to be a bit of a masochist to take this course.

# What is this?

"Math 116 is a course in real analysis and functional analysis
(infinite-dimensional vector spaces) with the mathematics motivated by
optimization problems" 

# Should I take it?

The prerequisites of the course are supposedly just linear algebra and
multivariable calculus but it really helps to have some real analysis
background. Personally I watched Harvey Mudd's [real analysis
videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sqEyWLGvvdw&t=2s&list=PL04BA7A9EB907EDAF&index=1)
and did some of the problems from MIT's Analysis I course,
[18.100B](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-100b-analysis-i-fall-2010/).
For what its worth, even with this background, I find the course extremely
difficult. 

While I don't regret taking the course, I have been hugely disappointed by the
limited interaction with other students.  All the MOOC's I've participated in
so far have had active discussion forums, but this course's forum is basically
dead. There's a wonderful feeling to connect with someone from across the globe
with a far different background from you, and be united by intellectual
curiosity and a love of learning. Don't expect to get this from Math 116.  The
only 'discussions' that appears are those incentivised with points that
contribute to your grade.

Nonetheless if you want a taste of what being pure math major is like, its hard
to beat this course. There aren't many good upper division math courses
available on the internet, so I'm grateful for the opportunity to take this
course.

# Additional Resources/Tips

According the Professor Bamberg, **"This course looks great on your transcript
when you apply to PhD programs, That's because it is a hard course"**. The
first 2 weeks are **not a good indication of the difficulty** of the course,
expect to spend **at least 20 hours a week on the course**. If you can't commit
this amount of time, I wouldn't take this course.

The lecture and section videos themselves take around at least 4 hours a week
to watch. Once the material starts getting harder, I found it best to go over
the material first using the outlines and scanned notes before watching the
lecture. Then you can skip through or slow down the video lectures to suit your
understanding of the material. For me, this by itself takes on average 8 hours
a week. The remaining 12 hours is to finish the homework. But that's just my
experience, its possible that others in the class are doing much better, many
of them are graduate students at Harvard. But I wouldn't know because again I
haven't spoken to any of them.

<br>

Here's the course's [extension
page](http://www.extension.harvard.edu/academics/courses/real-analysis-convexity-optimization/14806?_ga=1.130979788.2392206533.1464935770).

